[Music]
i found a two-minute hack that can
drastically increase your audience
retention of videos that you've already
posted to your channel look youtube can
be incredibly frustrating you put a ton
of time and effort and energy into your
videos you post them to youtube you go
to bed and then you wake up the next
morning and they have a grand total of
four views again and often the worst
part is when you log into your analytics
dashboard and you look at your audience
retention graphs they look like a
downward staircase and you think
yourself how could this happen i thought
this video was so good
well here's the thing sometimes that
video actually was really good however
there might be specific points within
the video that triggered people and
caused them to leave and resulted in
them not consuming the remainder of the
video in other words it doesn't matter
how great your video was overall these
little obstacles these drop-offs these
dips especially if they're early on ruin
your chances of getting a high average
view duration and getting promoted by
the algorithm and i had this happen to
me recently i worked really hard on a
video i spent over 60 hours scripting
preparing and researching and i was
super proud of it but when i came back
to it a day after it had gone live i saw
one of those dreaded obstacles i saw a
very specific dip at a very specific
point and when i re-watched the video i
realized i had phrased something super
stupidly which caused a bunch of people
to leave and was ruining my retention
outside of that one point the rest of
video was great and was retaining tons
of people but the problem was early on a
bunch of viewers were hitting that wall
that obstacle and dropping off before
they could get to the good bit and so
here's the thing i did that took me
literally less than two minutes but may
have saved that video i simply went into
the youtube video editor and chopped
that segment completely out of my video
and that was that from then on since
that friction point had been eliminated
it was easier for more people to flow on
and continue watching the rest of my
video now i'm not saying all those
people would have continued watching the
entire video but the very least most of
them left the video later than they
would have if i hadn't removed that
friction point and that meant that
overall i get a higher average view
duration so this is a super easy but
ninja technique you can use and i'll
show you how to do it in just a sec but
i want to give you one more example
because another cool way you can use
this is with dates no not romantic dates
i'm still figuring that one out but like
date and times for example i had a video
about the best editing software for
gaming youtubers at the beginning of
that video i said so in 2019 what are
the best editing softwares for gaming
youtubers or something like that i can't
remember exactly what i said now that
worked great for 2019 but nowadays the
2019 bit of that hook is more likely to
be a negative rather than a positive the
annoying thing was though that all of
the information in that video was still
very relevant and up to date the only
thing that was killing it was the fact
that i said in 2019 so what i did again
went into the youtube video editor
chopped off the so in 2019 bit and so
after that the video simply started with
what are the best video editing
softwares to edit gaming videos for
youtube and that would have resulted in
more people sticking with my video early
on so if you want to do this for your
videos all you have to do is go to
youtube studio hover over the video that
you think might have some friction
points and click on analytics in your
analytics you'll be able to see your
audience retention and pick out any
potential friction points i'll talk more
about how to do that in a second but
once you identify them all you have to
do is come over to this editor tab and
then you click here to bring up this
screen then all you have to do is drag
these little playheads so the part of
the video you want to remove is darkened
out then you just apply those changes
and in a few hours youtube will have
removed any of those bits indicated in
the grayed out area but your video
itself will still remain the same you'll
still have the same views same comments
same everything all that's changed is
you've removed the little friction point
and there you go you've given your video
a much better data driven chance of
succeeding and it's literally taking you
all of two minutes but if you need help
learning how to actually analyze your
audience retention graphs what to look
for click on the video up on screen now
you know i'm going to go over a bunch of
different examples specifically focusing
on intros and outros because they can be
super important so click it now and i'll
see you there